ATS functions
6.3.1 General
If specified by the authority having jurisdiction, a CBTC may interface to, or be integrated with, an ATS system. Under such circumstances, and to the extent specified by the authority having jurisdiction, CBTC- related ATS functions shall be implemented as defined in this subclause in order to benefit from the characteristics of a CBTC system as defined in 4.1, namely, the availability of the following:
— Train location information to a high precision, independent of track circuits
— Continuous wayside-to-train and train-to-wayside data communications link
— Train-borne and wayside data processing capabilities
The CBTC-related ATS functions defined in this subclause shall be fully integrated with other conventional ATS functions and other non-ATS functions, as may be specified by the authority having jurisdiction, to support overall service management for the transit system and provide for a single consistent user interface.
The CBTC data communications network, inclusive of the wayside-to-train and train-to-wayside data com- munications interface, shall be sufficient to support those CBTC-related ATS functions specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
6.3.2 ATS user interface.
Each ATS user interface shall display all information and implement all control actions, as defined in 6.3, within acceptable latencies as specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
Mandatory display data and user information inputs shall be in accordance with IEEE Std 1474.2-2003.
The ATS user shall be able to override any automated CBTC-related ATS functions defined in 6.3.
Certain ATS functions (such as stopping a train en route and the application and removal of temporary speed restrictions, switch/track blocking, or work zones) can potentially introduce system hazards and the specific implementation of these functions shall be considered in the hazard analyses required by 5.3.2. ATS func- tions are not required to be implemented in a fail-safe manner; however, the hazard analyses shall take into account, as a minimum, the probability of
a) Safety-related commands not being executed when initiated by an ATS user,
b) The CBTC system prematurely removing safety-related commands initiated by an ATS user,
c) The CBTC system executing safety-related commands that were not initiated by an ATS user,
d) Incorrect information being displayed by the CBTC system to the ATS user.
The hazard analyses shall give due consideration of the specific transit application and whether the trains are operated with or without crews.
Control action confirmation shall be provided for any safety-related user interfaces/inputs and functions whose inadvertent implementation could have an adverse operational impact, as defined by the authority having jurisdiction.
6.3.3 CBTC train identification and train tracking.
Each CBTC-equipped train operating within CBTC territory shall be assigned a train identification. This train identification shall indicate the type of train and other pertinent information about the train.
An ATS system shall have the capability to automatically track, maintain records of, and display on the ATS user interface the locations, identities, train schedule, and other pertinent data for all CBTC-equipped trains operating in the CBTC territory. The front and rear position of trains shall be tracked based on CBTC train location reports, and the train location shall be displayed on the ATS user interface. Variations in train length may be displayed either proportionally or as a standard length icon supplemented by textual train length data.
6.3.4 Train routing.
An ATS system shall have the capability to permit CBTC-equipped trains operating in CBTC territory to be manually and automatically routed based on CBTC train location reports and in accordance with the train service data, predefined routing rules, and any ATS user-directed service strategy. Where applicable to the specific track configuration, automatic routing shall facilitate the proper merging and diverging of trains at junctions, turn back of trains, the movement of trains from/to storage areas, and the rerouting of trains in response to service disruptions and/or planned outages. Train routes shall be indicated on the ATS user interface and may also be indicated to the train operator and/or conductor, if present, on their displays, as specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
An ATS system may also include a means to control and limit movement authorities of CBTC-equipped trains operating in CBTC territory. CBTC movement authority limits shall be capable of being displayed on the ATS user interface, and any uncommanded reductions of authority limits shall be alarmed. For trains
operated with crews, movement authority limits may also be indicated to the train operator and/or conductor on their displays, as specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
6.3.5 Automatic train regulation.
6.3.5.1 Schedule/headway regulation.
An ATS system may have the capability to automatically monitor and regulate the performance of CBTC- equipped trains operating in CBTC territory, in relation to schedule and/or headway adherence.
An ATS system may include an automatic dispatching function (based on train identities, CBTC train location reports, scheduled and actual headways between trains, and service strategies implemented by authorized ATS users).
Schedule and headway regulation for CBTC-equipped trains shall be by means of dwell time variance (including train holds) and may also be by control of run times between stations (e.g., through adjustments to train acceleration and service brake rates, and speeds), as specified by the authority having jurisdiction. For trains operated with crews, the desired station departure time and desired speed profile between stations may be indicated to the train operator and/or conductor on their displays and, when operating in ATO mode, shall be implemented automatically by a CBTC system using the automatic speed regulation function of 6.2.1.
An ATS system may provide the capability to adjust the train service braking profiles for CBTC-equipped trains (e.g., in response to wet rail conditions). A CBTC system shall coordinate implementation of requested changes in service braking profiles to avoid conditions that would result in an emergency brake application.
6.3.5.2 Junction management.
An ATS system may include automatic train regulation functions, based on CBTC train location reports, to facilitate appropriate train meets (such as transfers between local and express tracks, and at the merge point between different lines) in order to minimize overall system delays.
6.3.5.3 Energy optimization.
An ATS system may have the capability to implement energy optimization algorithms for CBTC-equipped trains through the real-time control and coordination of train acceleration, train coasting, and train braking. The priority given to energy optimization versus schedule/headway regulation shall be as specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
6.3.6 Station stop functions.
6.3.6.1 Stop train at next station.
An ATS system may include the means to direct a single CBTC-equipped train or a group of CBTC- equipped trains to stop at the next station, even if the train is scheduled to bypass that station. For trains operated with crews, a CBTC system may indicate the ATS train stop information to the train operator and conductor on their displays. In ATO mode, a CBTC-equipped train shall automatically stop at the next station.
6.3.6.2 Hold train at station.
For trains operated without crews, an ATS system shall include facilities to hold (and subsequently release) a CBTC-equipped train at a station.
For trains operated with crews, this function is optional and shall be as specified by the authority having jurisdiction. If this function is provided, a CBTC system may indicate the train hold information to the train operator and conductor on their displays, and/or prevent a CBTC-equipped train from departing the station in ATO mode.
6.3.6.3 Skip station stop.
An ATS system may include facilities to direct a CBTC-equipped train or group of CBTC-equipped trains to pass through a station or group of stations without stopping. For trains operated with crews, a CBTC system may indicate the skip station information to the train operator and conductor on their displays. In ATO mode, the train shall automatically skip the designated stations.
6.3.6.4 Door control inhibit.
An ATS system may include facilities to inhibit (and subsequently permit) CBTC control of the train doors, in accordance with 6.2.3.
6.3.7 Restricting train operations.
The application and removal of the following functions can potentially introduce system hazards and the specific implementation of these functions shall be considered in the hazard analyses required by 5.3.2.
6.3.7.1 Stopping a train en route.
An ATS system shall provide a means to stop a single CBTC-equipped train or group of CBTC-equipped trains immediately. A CBTC system shall initiate an immediate brake application on the designated trains and notify the train operator and conductor, if present, via their displays.
6.3.7.2 Temporary speed restrictions.
An ATS system shall include facilities to impose (and remove) temporary speed restrictions for CBTC- equipped trains operating on any section of track in CBTC territory (see 6.1.3).
6.3.7.3 Switch/track blocking.
An ATS system shall include facilities to block (and subsequently unblock) a switch, an exit signal, a route entry point, or a section of track within CBTC territory. A CBTC system shall prohibit CBTC-equipped trains from receiving movement authorities over blocked switches not aligned in the required position or into routes and/or sections of track that have been blocked (see 6.1.2 and 6.1.3).
6.3.7.4 Work zones.
An ATS system shall include facilities to establish (and subsequently remove) temporary work zones for the protection of work crews and work trains.
A CBTC system shall enforce restricted speeds on approach to and through defined work zones (see 6.1.13). For trains operated with crews, information indicating that the restriction is due to a work zone shall be dis- played to the train operator and conductor on their displays, and the CBTC system may preclude ATO mode of operation through a work zone.
An ATS system may also provide methods of visually and audibly indicating the approach and direction of trains along the wayside to warn on-track roadway workers in areas where visibility is restricted.

6.3.8 Passenger information system interfaces.
An ATS system may interface with wayside and/or train-borne passenger information systems to trigger automatic passenger information messages, such as train arrival information, based on CBTC train location reports. Train-borne passenger information system interfaces shall be in accordance with IEEE Std 1477- 1998.
6.3.9 Fault reporting.
6.3.9.1 CBTC fault reporting.
Failures and out-of-tolerance conditions detected by, or input to, a CBTC system that can impact the on-time performance of the transit system or result in some other loss of specific CBTC functionality may be auto- matically indicated on the ATS user interface display. Any alarms shall be categorized and prioritized into critical and noncritical alarms and logged. All critical alarms shall require acknowledgment.
6.3.9.2 Train fault reporting.
Train-borne CBTC equipment may include interfaces to train-borne subsystems for the purposes of communicating train health data to the wayside for display on the ATS user interface displays, as specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
6.4 Interoperability interface requirements.
This performance and functional requirements standard does not include interface design standards for interoperability. Where interoperability requirements are specified by the authority having jurisdiction, it shall be the responsibility of that authority to define the required interoperability interface standards.
NOTE—Examples of interoperability requirements include the following:
— Trains equipped with CBTC equipment furnished by one supplier to be capable of operating in CBTC territory equipped with wayside CBTC equipment furnished by another supplier
— Wayside equipment furnished by two separate suppliers to communicate with each other in the overlap area and with common central ATS equipment
— A basic operating unit with train-borne CBTC equipment furnished by one supplier to be capable of operating within a train with another basic operating unit equipped with train-borne CBTC equipment furnished by another supplier
A future CBTC standard may establish interoperability interface requirements.
