SelTr a c M B For M ass Transit Autom atic Tra in Contro l For transit authorities aiming to move more people more quickly and increase revenue potential, SelTrac MB is the state-of-the-art solution.
Alcatel s most sophisticated mass transit signaling system uses advanced communication technology to deliver the only true moving-block automatic train control.
Our moving block signaling technology provides safe, ultra-efficient, flexible train separation beyond the limitations of fixed blocks.
It allows operators to cost-effectively achieve even more than they might expect possible out of their system.
SelTrac MB offers superb operational flexibility for any transit system no matter how demanding.
And if high or increasing capacity is an issue, SelTrac MB has proven to deliver under sixty second headway, better than normally required.
W ith SelTrac MB, total automatic train separation control is at hand from a central facility.
High-availability, automatic routesetting, fast schedule recovery, precise stationstopping (allowing for shorter platforms), and bi-directional operation are only a few of the benefits to gain with our high performance technology.
And by automating numerous control functions with data transmission to track and train, SelTrac MB requires much less wayside and vehicle-borne hardware.
The results are major savings in operations and maintenance costs, and in energy consumption.
Key Benef i ts Enha nced Sa fety Grea ter Ca p a city Sign if ica nt Cost Sa v ings Fea tures Autom a tic tr a in p ro tect ion , op era t ion a nd sup er v ision Dr iver less op era t ion or op era tor a ssisted a nd ca b -signa l ing m od es Autom a tic p er fo rm a nce m od if ica t ion (includ ing sp eed a nd sta t ion d w el l) Fully red und a nt tr a in -to -w a y sid e conf igura t ions Fully protected b i-d irectiona l operation (requir ing no additiona l hardw are) Solid -sta te in ter lock ing a nd rem ote sw itch contro l Hiera rch ica l sy stem contro l fo r op t im a l f lex ib i l i ty a nd sa fety Flexibility and modularity of design make SelTrac MB an economical, high-performance alternative for almost any fixed guideway or rail transit system, new or existing.
For high-capacity heavy rail metros, rapid transit and light rail applications, it provides all the functionality necessary for safe, automatic train supervision.
Its unique capacity for remote health-status monitoring and for control of all vehicle systems -including both train and platform doors, couplers and auxiliaries -makes it an attractive choice for the designer with either a fully automatic or driver-assisted network in mind.
Existing fixed-block systems can be upgraded to SelTrac MB cost effectively to provide greater reliability and shortened headways.
Installation is performed as an overlay in parallel with the existing system.
Our cut-over strategy allows operators to phase in the new system with the least amount of disruption.
Proven in the various applications, SelTrac MB s compatibility extends to a wide range of propulsion and braking technologies and vehicle sizes to date this includes 7 different car types for heavy and light rail, by three manufacturers, in both new and retrofit conditions.
Proven Techno logy.
Enviable Track Record Continually evolving to meet the changing needs of mass transit operators around the world, SelTrac MB technology has provided safe, reliable, revenue-efficient operation for two decades.
The only proven moving-block technology on the market, SelTrac MB sets the quality and performance standards that all others strive to reach.
SelTracMB The CBTC Solution For Urban Rail Transit High Performance Designed for Growth N ew or Existing Systems SelTrac MB Flexible, Threetier Super vision for True Moving Block Signaling Vehicle Control Centre (VCC) The Vehicle Control Centre, SelTrac MB s tactical heart, controls safe train separation and movement in conjunction with route setting and interlocking.
Its vital triple-redundant computer complex exchanges data cyclically with each train s Vehicle On-Board Controller (VOBC).
Trains within a VCC s control territory are continuously issued updated safe stopping points, maximum allowable velocities, and subsystem commands.
The VCC determines a train s safe stopping point according to the location and routes of all other trains, unlocked switches, velocity restrictions or station platform stops, whichever condition is most restrictive.
It sets routes by monitoring switch status and activating switches or signals through the Station Controller Subsystem (STC).
Vehicle On-Boa rd Contro l ler (VOBC) A checked-redundant microprocessor unit, the VOBC controls a train within velocity and distance limits commanded by the VCC, and transmits data to the VCC on the vehicle s position, velocity and travel direction as well as on its subsystems.
In both cab-signaling and automatic modes, it responds to overspeed conditions by automatically applying emergency or full-service braking (depending on the criticality of the event).
Redundant microprocessors perform comparisons of all vital outputs and inputs.
Each train is configured with multiple VOBCs.
Should one fail, another will be automatically activated.
Com m unica t ions Sub sy stem (Ind uct ive Loop s or Ra d io) The VCC and VOBC are linked by high-frequency digital spread-spectrum radio, or by low-frequency inductive transmission via loop cable.
The radio link relies on free-standing antennas or leaky coaxial-cable antennas.
Trackside transponder tags assist in train positioning.
W ith the inductive transmission version, loops are laid between the tracks and transposed every 25 metres (82 feet) for ground reference calculations.
Sta t ion Contro l ler Sub sy stem (STC) The Station Controller Subsystem (STC) is a checked-redundant microprocessor under VCC command.
It controls trackside devices like switches and position indicators, and it transmits back to the VCC vital field data including switch position, platform intrusion and emergency stop requests.
The STC also supports axle counters to provide separate switch deadlocking and tracking of unequipped trains.
TRACK SWITCH CONTROL SelN et N etTr a c Sy stem M a na g em en t Cen tr e Through Alcatel s advanced SelNet platform (based on commercial off-the-shelf PCs and LAN technology), the System Management Centre (SMC) supervises the automatic, cab-signaling or manual operation of the entire rail fleet.
SelNet is designed to provide automatic control of all train operations under normal conditions without operator intervention.
It is easy to use and enables operators to handle system disruptions quickly.
Standard features include sophisticated failure management capabilities, high system availability, redundancy, complex alarm handling, and data logging.
SMC workstations display the track layout together with icons individually identifying all elements under SelTrac MB control.
At a glance, central controllers monitor the location and schedule adherence of each train within the system.
Icon colour changes alert dispatchers to changes in the status of trains, platforms, track switches and tracks.
Situations requiring urgent attention trip visual and audible alarm messages.
Dispatchers use pull-down command menus, drag and drop and point and click options to perform numerous functions, including: Assigning and launching a schedule Monitoring status Routing trains to a specific track 
 location or station Assigning trains to a line or unassignment, or to a shuttle service 
 Holding trains at specified location sort by  passing platforms Diverting trains a round
 an impassable area Changing train velocity Triggering automatican nouncements instation
 sand on trains Interfacing with other suppliers subsystems.
SelTracMB Advantages Alcatel:People Moving People Real mass transit solutions begin with people.
Alcatel assembles the right people into the right teams for tackling the unique challenges and complexities of your project.
Our people listen and respond, tailoring Alcatel s proven modular technology to your special needs and helping you make the right decisions now and for the future.
With more experience in advanced communications-based signal control systems than anybody anywhere, your Alcatel team offers exceptional integrated solutions for maximizing capacity, minimizing cost and enhancing safety.
Our support is wide-ranging; our commitment is long-term.
Select images in this brochure courtesy of Bombardier Transportation Per form a nce Headway from 5 minutes to under 60-seconds is economically feasible No hardware additions or modifications are necessary for adjusting headway to meet demand growth Peak-service train launches are centrally planned and coordinated with full knowledge of each vehicle s condition Changes in vehicle make-up for operational, maintenance, or failure-recovery reasons can be automated to reduce manpower requirements or executed manually to address coupling problems Maintenance planning and execution can be coordinated with revenue operations Precise station stopping Flex ib le Sy stem Op era t ion a nd M a na gem ent Centralized performance control ensures shorter delays, quicker schedule recovery and lower energy consumption Real-time control of train parameters facilitates centralized dispatching and route setting, performance evaluation (train and crew), on-line corrections, off-line analysis, passenger announcements providing advance information, and service removals in accordance with scheduling, hardware failure, or emergency conditions Continuously variable speed monitoring and control Temporary speed restrictions controlled by central dispatchers and automatically supervised Compliance with civil speed restrictions or other guideway parameters requires minor changes to software parameters only Sa fety Over 15 year track record of safe operation Designed and tested to meet international safety integrity requirements Cost Sa v ings Lower life-cycle costs Fewer wayside and train-borne subsystems, and no complex, relay-based interlocking designs Fewer subsystems exposed to harsh environmental conditions No insulated joints or track bonds, for lower track noise and maintenance costs Around the W or ld i t s SelTra c CBTC Ankara Rapid Transit Detroit Downtown People Mover Docklands Light Railway Lewisham Extension Hong Kong KCRC West Rail East Rail Ma On Shan Jacksonville ASE JFK International Airport Kuala Lumpur LRT II Las Vegas Monorail Newark International Airport Northeast Corridor Extension San Francisco Municipal Railway Scarborough RT Line Tampa International Airport Vancouver SkyTrain Extension to Braid Street Extension to Vancouver Community College Walt Disney World Monorail Tr a n sp o r t A u to m a t io n Head Office 10, rue Lat co re BP 57 78141 V lizy France Tel: 33 1 3077 1730 Fax: 33 1 3077 1268 Visit our Website w w w .a lca tel .co m / ta s Regional Offices Austria Scheydgasse 41 A-1211 Vienna Tel: 43 1 27722 5779 Fax: 43 1 27722 3614 Canada 1235 Ormont Drive Toronto, ON M9L 2W6 Tel: 1 416 742 3900 Fax: 1 416 742 1136 China 12F, Tower A, Pacific Century Place 100027 Chaoyang District Beijing Tel: 86 10 6539 2200 ext.
8101 Fax: 86 10 6539 2201 France 10, rue Lat co re BP 57 78141 V lizy Tel: 33 1 3077 0686 Fax: 33 1 3077 1099 Germany Lorenzstrasse 10 70435 Stuttgart Tel: 49 711 821 444 92 Fax: 49 711 821 468 13 Portugal S o Gabriel P-2750 Cascais Tel: 351 21 485 9482 Fax: 351 21 485 9112 Spain 5, Ramirez de Prado 28045 Madrid Tel: 34 91 330 9575 Fax: 34 91 330 9576 Switzerland Friesenbergstrasse 75 CH-8055 Zurich Tel: 41 1 465 2485 Fax: 41 1 465 2555 United Kingdom 1F, Great Eastern Enterprise E14 9XP 3 Millharbour London Tel: 44 020 7537 9000 Fax: 44 020 7293 1451 USA 5700 Corporate Drive, Suite 300 Pittsburgh, PA 15237 Tel: 1 412 366 8814 Fax: 1 412 366 8817 Pr int ed in C an ad a 05 /0 1 SelTrac CBTC Technology A D V A N C E D U R B A N R A I L T R A I N C O N T R O L VOBC Emergency Brake Applied Speed Supervision Curve Track Circuit Block Cab DisplayEmergency Brake Tag Reader SIDTAG With the constant pressure to minimize operating costs and the need to bring system improvements on line faster, many transit operators are looking for the flexibility that transmission-based, or communications-based train control (CBTC) technology provides.
Answering the call for modern signaling, CBTC presents the opportunity to enhance performance and safety, and lower life-cycle costs.
Having applied SelTrac systems to more than 500km of urban rail around the world, Alcatel has proven this methodology for over two decades, and offers operators a straightforward and cost efficient way to benefit from intelligent CBTC technology.
Whether this benefit comes from modular upgrades and overlay re-signaling techniques to reach beyond the limitations of conventional fixed-block designs, or from a fully comprehensive solution to move more people more quickly and increase revenue potential, Alcatel and SelTrac can meet your needs.
Modular SelTrac system solutions are flexible and adaptable enabling customers to incrementally upgrade functionality over time, without disrupting operation.
Transit operators retain the value of their original investment as they expand and grow their systems.
SelTrac can be configured easily to meet the specific functionality needs of the operation.
With built-in flexibility, SelTrac addresses the diverse requirements of operators needing basic Automatic Train Protection (ATP), cab-signaling, or CBTC-based operations.
From simply replacing existing signaling, to improving the headway performance of an existing fixed-block system, SelTrac is the convenient and cost-effective solution.
At the high end of the signaling spectrum, SelTrac systems include both logic block and full moving block automatic train control solutions.
These systems offer superb operational flexibility under even the most demanding of conditions.
And, to meet high or increasing capacity situations, SelTrac has proven to deliver under sixty second headway, better than normally required.
SelTrac S10 vitally enforces speed profiles and signal adherence and provides all the usual functions of an intermittent ATP.
S10 provides an entry-level computer based train protection mechanism that enhances operational safety by supervising driver actions.
Monitoring and interfacing with conventional signals, it prevents trains passing signals at danger and operating at speeds higher than mandated by civil speed limits.
Information is intermittently transmitted to the train at specific locations.
Look-ahead capability is to the next block only.
With Alcatel s intelligent use of transponders, SelTrac S10 is an ideal overlay enhancement for existing conventional signal systems.
Our simple Signal Interface Device (SID) unobtrusively senses the state of the signal lamp circuit.
It enables transponder tags located along the track to transmit signal status and permitted speed information to Alcatel s Vehicle On-Board Controller (VOBC).
The advantage of this concept is its simple interfacing technique.
It can be installed and brought on-line quickly and easily without complicated tie-ins to the signal circuitry, and operators do not require new skills to use and benefit from the system.
When the VOBC detects an over-speed condition, it alerts the driver and monitors the driver s reaction to the alert.
Should the driver fail to respond properly, the VOBC vitally activates the braking system.
In addition to signal enforcement tags, other tags are installed at appropriate locations along the track to provide for continuity of positioning information and speed enforcement.
Operating data is fed to a high definition Driver Display Unit, allowing the driver to confidently monitor train performance and status.
By providing speed and signal information to the driver in the cab, the system allows minimized headway while ensuring safety.
S E L T R A C S 1 0 : Provides braking profile supervision and enforcement Supports temporary speed restrictions (e Work Zone) Supports travel direction reversal Determines permitted and actual train speed Determines travel direction vs.
expected travel direction Provides compensation for wheel slip/slide Provides automatic wheel size calibration to maintain accurate speed and position determination Records events in real time Can display distance traveled and distance to go Can be configured for ETCS Level 1 function compatibility and compliance SelTrac Solutions The SelTrac System Spectrum S T E P U P S O L U T I O N S F O R N E W O R E X I S T I N G O P E R AT I O N S H I G H P E R F O R M A N C E S O U N D I N V E S T M E N T Track Circuits/ Train Signals ATS Operation Headway Not Required High Performance Unattended or Optimized Minimum Driver/Attendant Under 60 sec.
On-board Optional Conventional Driver Supervised Constrained by Interlocking Layout Optional Conventional Drive by Cab Constrained by Driver Signaling Response and Interlocking Layout Required Conventional Drive by Track Based on Track Signaling Circuit Layout Automatic Train Operation and Management Automatic Train Operation Automatic Train Protection Speed Enforcement S40 S30 S20 S10 M O D U LA R A D D -O N S S10 Speed Enforcement Overlay SelTrac technology can save an operator significant costs when compared to other options.
The equipment used with the S10 implementation can be upgraded to full Automatic Train Operation (ATO).
M E T R O S / L I G H T R A I L / A P M s LOGICAL BLOCKS Radio VOBC Emergency Brake Applied Radio Radio ATS Interlocking Control TAG Wayside Controller Cab Display Tag Reader Emergeny Brake Speed Supervision Curve LOGICAL BLOCKS Radio VOBC Emergency Brake Applied Radio Radio ATS Interlocking Control TAG Wayside Controller Cab Display Tag Reader Emergeny Brake Propulsion and Service Brakes Speed Supervision Curve Enhancing S10 capability, SelTrac S20 provides the added value of improved headway while maintaining safe train separation without depending on track circuits.
S20 will automatically generate movement authorities based on the actual locations of moving obstacles (i trains) and fixed obstacles such as switch protection signals.
The system is used in conjunction with existing interlockings and provides a replacement for automatic separation signals between the interlockings.
S20 can operate seamlessly with existing track circuits which provide an inherent mechanism to operate mixed mode traffic (S20 equipped and non-equipped trains).
Drivers are provided with a display in the cab that presents information about the operating conditions ahead of the train.
Information is continuously transmitted to the train using a radio-based Data Communications System (DCS).
S E L T R A C S 2 0 : S10 FUNCTIONAL ITY PLUS .
Improves headway by way of overlay signaling technique Provides continuous ATP and cab-signaling Provides high availability Allows multiple trains per physical track circuit and fully protected bi-directional operation (requiring no additional hardware) Reduces track-side equipment Incorporates digital spread-spectrum radio technology Provides integrated communication capability between wayside and train with fully redundant configurations Extending S20 capability, SelTrac S30 adds automatic train movement control capability.
This feature offers the driver the ability to select the automatic control of the train s propulsion and service brakes.
Applying this automation can improve running performance and station stopping accuracy.
Ensuring safe operation, the train will perform at optimal speeds relative to operating conditions ahead of it.
This functionality is considered non-vital, with S20 features providing the safety net.
S E L T R A C S 3 0 : S20 FUNCTIONAL ITY PLUS .
Provides automatic train movement control functionality Governs automatic speed control to traffic and track conditions Can provide additional functions such as coordinated train and platform door control Vehicle-centric block logic is built into software that can be customized to different train types and track designs.
This allows more efficient block lengths to be set within the parameters of the fixed-block locations.
The operator can safely run two trains closer together to improve throughput.
Alcatel s logic block technology has advanced further in the re-signaling segment and is now especially effective in resolving urban interoperability and mixed-mode requirements faced by major transit operators.
For overlay applications, SelTrac is designed to work in concert with the operator s presently installed interlocking devices.
The technology is applied in a modular, distributed fashion.
SOLUTIONS FOR INTEROPERABILITY SelTrac technology incorporates open architecture, system modularity, standard interfaces, and commercial offthe-shelf data communications components based on Open System network solutions that facilitate component interchangeability strategies.
Safe train control functionality is specifically designed to be independent of the communication subsystem.
Overlay designs facilitate cost-effective system cut-over and deployment, allow mixed-mode operation, and provide an easy evolutionary path to higher level functionality.
More advanced SelTrac configurations bring additional functionality and features into play, enabling operators to significantly enhance performance and service frequency with shorter headways and automated operation.
These solutions are based on a logic block design the system is not dependent on, or restricted by track circuits (i two trains can occupy the same physical block but not the same virtual or logic block).
Alcatel offers choice from bi-directional, continuous ATP to continuous ATO with or without drivers.
E N H A N C E D S A F E T Y / G R E A T E R T H R O U G H P U T / S I G N I F I C A N T C O S T S AV I N G S S20 Train Protection Overlay S30 Automatic Train Operation Overlay Physical Blocks Logical Blocks Moving Block LOGICAL BLOCKS Radio VOBC Emergency Brake Applied Radio Radio Central ATS Signals/Track Circuits/ Trip Stops TAG Wayside Controller Cab Display Tag Reader Emergeny Brake Propulsion and Service Brakes Speed Supervision Curve Interlocking Control MOVING BLOCK Emergency Brake Applied System Management Centre (ATS) Track Switch Control Wayside Controller Speed Supervision Curve Radio VOBC Cab Display Tag Reader and loop antenna Emergeny Brake Propulsion and Service Brakes alternatives TAG S40 Automatic Train Operation and Management SelTrac S40 integrates the features of S20 and S30 with interlocking and central control functions to provide fully driver-less train control capability.
Train supervision is optional -either unattended or with an attendant/driver on board.
All train control operations are self-supervising.
S40 performance can be achieved either from the modular build-up process utilizing a distributed system architecture, or directly from an integrated design utilizing a centralized system architecture.
Flexibility and modularity of design make SelTrac S40 an economical, high-performance alternative for almost any fixed guideway or rail transit system, new or existing.
For high-capacity heavy rail metros, rapid transit, light rail and people-mover applications, it provides all the functionality and flexibility necessary for safe, automatic train supervision and is capable of delivering under 60 second headway.
Its unique capacity for remote healthstatus monitoring and for control of all vehicle systems -including doors (both train and platform), couplers and auxiliaries -makes it an attractive choice for the operator with either a fully automatic (driver-less) or driver-assisted network in mind.
Existing fixed-block systems can be upgraded to S40 cost effectively to provide greater reliability and shortened headways.
Installation is performed as an overlay in parallel with the existing system.
Our cut-over strategy allows operators to phase in the new system with the least amount of disruption.
S E L T R A C S 4 0 : S30 FUNCTIONAL ITY PLUS .
Unattended or driver/attended operation including cab-signaling modes Logic or Moving-block technology Automatic performance modification (including speed and station dwell) Fully redundant train-to-wayside configurations Fully protected bi-directional operation (requiring no additional hardware) Can include solid-state interlocking and remote switch control High availability Automatic route setting Quick-start reset Can include automatic coupling/uncoupling Based on principles and techniques proven for decades with Alcatel s low frequency inductive loop-based technology, SelTrac S30 and S40 solutions can incorporate high bandwidth, spread-spectrum radio communication technology to deliver the most advanced, most efficient Automatic Train Control solution available today.
MODULAR UPGRADES For applications requiring operation with existing interlocking and/or fixed-block signaling, modular SelTrac solutions are ideal.
For new installations or upgrades, Alcatel s LockTrac electronic interlocking and ATS platforms are easily added to the configuration to provide fully integrated train control.
Either logic block or moving block technology can be applied; both dispense with the restrictions of fixed-blocks and provide high-end performance.
O V E R L AY C B T C F O R P E R F O R M A N C E I M P R O V E M E N T S NetTrac MT System Management Centre Through Alcatel s advanced NetTrac MT platform (based on commercial off-the-shelf PCs and LAN technology), the System Management Centre (SMC) supervises the automatic, cab-signaling or manual operation of the entire rail fleet.
NetTrac MT is designed to provide automatic control of all train operations under normal conditions without operator intervention.
It is easy to use and enables operators to handle system disruptions quickly.
Standard features include sophisticated failure management capabilities, high system availability, redundancy, complex alarm handling, and data logging.
SMC workstations display the track layout together with icons individually identifying all elements under SelTrac control.
At a glance, central controllers monitor the location and schedule adherence of each train within the system.
Icon colour changes alert dispatchers to changes in the status of trains, platforms, track switches and tracks.
Situations requiring urgent attention trip visual and audible alarm messages.
Dispatchers use pull-down command menus, drag and drop and point and click options to perform numerous functions, including: Assigning and launching a schedule Monitoring status Routing trains to a specific track location or station Assigning trains to a line or run assignment, or to a shuttle service Holding trains at specified locations or by-passing platforms Diverting trains around an impassable area Changing train velocity Triggering automatic announcements in stations and on trains Interfacing with other suppliers subsystems.
R A D I O C O M M U N I C AT I O N T E C H N O L O G Y The driving force behind the advancement in applying broad-band radio technology to rail transit has been the need to move train control to a much simpler infrastructure while maintaining constant communication as trains move along the track.
Major benefits to a radio-based communication system include ease of installation and maintenance, faster recovery times due to single component failure detection and replacement, and low susceptibility to vandalism.
As well, the technology allows enhanced capabilities such as on-board video surveillance, arrival/departure information, and video broadcasting.
Proving radio communication viability to urban rail transit operations, Alcatel demonstrated its Data Communication System (DCS) in 1996 to New York City Transit.
We will apply it to at least a new monorail in Las Vegas, and to RATP s Line 13 in Paris within in the next two to three years.
The communication technology follows an open-system philosophy that complies with well-recognized industry standards and protocols which provide a stable future migration path.
SelTrac CBTC High Performance Advantages Solution Excellence PERFORMANCE AND THROUGHPUT Headway from 5 minutes to under 60-seconds is economically feasible No hardware additions are necessary for adjusting headway to meet future growth demands Peak-service train launches are centrally planned and coordinated with full knowledge of each vehicle s condition Changes in vehicle make-up for operational, maintenance, or failure-recovery reasons can be automated to reduce manpower requirements or executed manually to address coupling problems Maintenance planning and execution can be coordinated with revenue operations Precise station stopping FLEXIBLE SYSTEM OPERATIONAND MANAGEMENT Centralized performance control ensures shorter delays, quicker schedule recovery and lower energy consumption Real-time control of train parameters facilitates centralized dispatching and route setting, performance evaluation (train and crew), on-line corrections, off-line analysis, passenger announcements providing advance information, and service removals in accordance with scheduling, hardware failure, or emergency conditions Continuously variable speed monitoring and control Temporary speed restrictions controlled by central dispatchers and automatically supervised Compliance with civil speed restrictions or other guideway parameters requires minor changes to software parameters only S A F E T Y Over two decade track record of safe operation.
Designed and tested to meet international safety integrity requirements.
C O S T S A V I N G S Lower life-cycle costs Fewer wayside and train-borne subsystems, and no complex, relay-based interlocking designs.
Fewer subsystems exposed to harsh environmental conditions No insulated joints or track bonds, for lower track noise and maintenance costs In 2002 RATP selected SelTrac S30 CBTC overlay technology to upgrade Line 13 the longest and most over-crowded line in Paris.
Criteria included improved headway from 105 seconds to 90 seconds, improved safety, reduced track-side equipment and multiple trains per physical track circuit.
The overlay design facilitates cost-effective system cut-over and deployment with no impact on normal operations, allows mixedmode operation, and provides an easy evolutionary path to higher level functionality including driver-less operation.
Revenue service for Line 13 is slated for 2006.
To expand outlying areas for economic development, the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation will bring their West Rail system into revenue service in 2003 and their East Rail Extension Ma On Shan line into service in 2004.
Both heavy metros will be state-of-the-art CBTC systems relying on SelTrac S40 with moving-block technology, the solution of choice to meet demands of high performance, operating efficiency and capital investment savings.
SelTrac S40 solutions provide very short headway allowances, flexibility for peak hour service, significantly reduced hardware and maintenance costs, and can be extended easily to meet growth demands.
West Rail and Ma On Shan Rail will be operated with on-board attendants.
Real mass transit solutions begin with people.
Alcatel assembles the right teams with the right people to tackle the unique challenges and complexities of your project.
Our people listen and respond, tailoring Alcatel s proven technology to your special needs and helping you make the right decisions now and for the future.
With more experience in advanced communications-based train control technology than anyone anywhere, your Alcatel team offers exceptional expertise and integrated solutions for maximizing capacity, minimizing cost and enhancing safety.
Our support is wide-ranging; our commitment is long-term.
ENVIABLE TRACK RECORD Continually evolving to meet the changing needs of mass transit operators around the world, SelTrac technology has provided safe, reliable, revenue-efficient operation for over two decades.
The leading communications-based train control technology on the market, SelTrac sets the quality and performance standards that all others strive to reach.
Alcatel CBTC systems are proven with over 10 million train operating hours of revenue service.
P R O V E N T E C H N O L O G Y Around the World it s SelTrac CBTC Ankara Rapid Transit Detroit Downtown People Mover Hong Kong KCRC West Rail East Rail Extension Ma On Shan Line Jacksonville ASE JFK International Airport APM Kuala Lumpur LRT II Las Vegas Monorail London Docklands Light Railway Newark International Airport APM Paris RATP Line 13 San Francisco Municipal Railway Tampa International Airport APM Toronto Scarborough RT Line Toronto Subway Vancouver SkyTrain Expo and Millennium Lines Walt Disney World Monorail Wuhan Metro Visit our Website Pr in te d in C an ad a 07 /0 2 Transport Automation Head Office 10, rue Lat co re BP 57 78141 V lizy France Tel: 33 1 3077 1730 Fax: 33 1 3077 1268 Regional Offices Austria Scheydgasse 41 A-1211 Vienna Tel: 43 1 27722 5779 Fax: 43 1 27722 3614 Canada 1235 Ormont Drive Toronto, ON M9L 2W6 Tel: 1 416 742 3900 Fax: 1 416 742 1136 China 12F, Tower A, Pacific Century Place 100027 Chaoyang District Beijing Tel: 86 10 6539 2200 ext.
8101 Fax: 86 10 6539 2201 France 1, rue Amp re 91302 Massy Tel: 33 1 6976 9002 Fax: 33 1 6976 9001 Germany Lorenzstrasse 10 70435 Stuttgart Tel: 49 711 821 444 92 Fax: 49 711 821 468 13 Portugal S o Gabriel P-2750 Cascais Tel: 351 21 485 9482 Fax: 351 21 485 9112 Spain 5, Ramirez de Prado 28045 Madrid Tel: 34 91 330 9575 Fax: 34 91 330 9576 Switzerland Friesenbergstrasse 75 CH-8055 Zurich Tel: 41 1 465 2485 Fax: 41 1 465 2555 United Kingdom 1F, Great Eastern Enterprise E14 9XP 3 Millharbour London Tel: 44 020 7537 9000 Fax: 44 020 7293 1451 USA 5700 Corporate Drive, Suite 300 Pittsburgh, PA 15237 Tel: 1 412 366 8814 Fax: 1 412 366 8817 SelTrac CBTC Communications-Based Train Control For Urban Rail RAIL SIGNALLING SOLUTIONS World-leading SelTrac CBTC Solutions () ( 0%2 /2-!.
% s 3/5.
).6%34-%.4 With the constant pressure to minimize operating costs and the need to bring system improvements on line faster, many transit operators are preferring the flexibility that our communications-based train control (CBTC) technology provides.
Answering the call for modern signalling, SelTrac CBTC offers the opportunity to enhance performance and safety and lower life-cycle costs.
SelTrac systems are installed on transit networks around the world.
Our methodology and technology has been proven in use for thirty years.
From fully automated, integrated solutions to upgradeable solutions and overlay re-signaling techniques to reach beyond the limitations of conventional fixed-block designs, SelTrac system solutions readily meet your needs to move more people more quickly and increase revenue potential.
Applicable to any type or size of rolling stock and dedicated guideway, SelTrac system solutions are flexible and adaptable enabling customers to employ a complete, high-end system or incrementally upgrade functionality over time, without disrupting operation.
Transit operators retain the value of their original investment as they expand and grow their systems.
SelTrac can be configured easily to meet the specific functionality needs of the operation.
With built-in flexibility, SelTrac addresses the diverse requirements of operators needing basic Automatic Train Protection (ATP), cab-signalling, or CBTCbased operations.
From simply replacing existing signalling, to improving the headway performance of an existing fixed-block system, SelTrac is the convenient and cost-effective solution.
Our premium SelTrac solutions include moving block technology for unattended/driverless operation.
These systems offer excellent operational flexibility under even the most demanding of conditions.
And, to meet high or increasing capacity situations, SelTrac has proven that it can deliver headways of under sixty seconds, better than normally required.
%.(!.
% 3! %49 s 2%!4%2 4(2/5 (054 s 3) .) ) !.4 /34 3!6).
3 -%42/3 ,) (4 2!0) 42!.3)4 !0-S SelTrac system solutions readily meet your needs to move more people more quickly and increase revenue potential.
The Business Case for SelTrac CBTC Optimising capital investment s Shorter platforms due to shorter, more frequent trains MTR West Rail saved 384 million USD for nine stations s Avoidance of building new tunnels (re-signalling) San Francisco MUNI doubled their existing tunnel capacity from 23 to 48 trains per hour with installation of SelTrac saving 1.3 billion USD Equipment minimisation s No traditional ancillary equipment required if mixed-mode is not part of normal operation No need for new fallback system s Less equipment On the track Due to integration of functions Ease of expansion s Once SelTrac is installed, headways can be reduced and system capacity increased with no additional capital expenditure for the wayside, up to the physical limits of the guideway and trains Kuala Lumpur PUTRA, Vancouver SkyTrain and SF MUNI have increased their fleets without changes to wayside hardware or software s System expansion is not tied to the initial vehicle supplier, competitive bid on new vehicles is possible SelTrac allows for different vehicle types with different performance and from different suppliers to operate on the same guideway, without overall system performance degradation or the need to update wayside equipment.
Vancouver SkyTrain runs two generations of vehicles; San Francisco MUNI supports three vehicle types Capacity enhancement s Aging metro infrastructures can be modernized and operational capacity increased with SelTrac: San Francisco MUNI s London Underground, one of the world s oldest largest metros: Jubilee (2009): 35 km, 63 trains Northern (2011): 57 km, 106 trains Piccadilly (2015): 71 km, 92 trains 20% capacity improvement due to signaling; Minimum impact to ongoing revenue operations Energy Savings s Energy-optimized driving profiles (e coasting, reduced speeds, and reduced acceleration curves) can be based on time of day s Schedule synchronization for regenerative power saving Hong Kong saves an estimated 2 Million USD per year in energy due to Automatic Train Operation Vancouver SkyTrain: Energy consumption per passenger-kilometer is just less than half the average of the other systems.
(BC Transit Fact Sheet SkyTrain Performance , October 1991) Flexible Operations s Automatic Junction Management s Remote diagnostic and centralized fault management capabilities s Automatic incident management Bi-directional same-track operation Schedule recovery 2 3 Dubai Metro Kinki Sharyo Guangzhou s Line 3 Siemens KoRail s Seoul Bundang Rotem Las Vegas Monorail and many others Bombardier London s Jubilee, Northern and Piccadilly Lines Alstom MTR s Disneyland Resort Line Cammell Washington Dulles Int l Airport MHI s Crystal Mover Wuhan Changchun Car Co.
3%,42! 3/,54)/.3 /2 !.9 42!).
490% /2 349,% Specializing in quality signalling and train control technology, we can apply our solutions to any rolling stock.
Examples include: SelTrac can run different trains from different suppliers on the same line.
SelTrac is unique! (//3% ).4% 2!4% /2 /6%2,!9 !2 ()4% 452% 4(% /-0,%4% ).4% 2!4% 3/,54)/.
The fully integrated SelTrac CBTC provides maximum performance in terms of headways, passenger throughput, and energy conservation.
Integrating the management of the interlocking with the train location information, as communicated through the CBTC system, allows faster response times, more tightly controlled movements, and easier expandability and adaptability.
Interfaces within the Zone Controller are more easily designed than those between subsystems.
The integrated SelTrac CBTC system knows the position of each train to a high degree of accuracy.
It can control the behaviour of the train at all times and, in response to changing conditions, can modify the behaviour to ensure the safety of the system while offering maximum service.
It can adapt its algorithms to take advantage of individual train behaviour, and change parameters to ensure optimum use of resources, such as platform availability and traction power.
It can coordinate train movements with a high degree of precision to move passengers efficiently through the system.
The Limit of Movement Authority (LMA) setting logic has a high impact on the end system performance, i managing the interlocking in an integrated manner.
Interlocking and switch control logic is optimized using the position reports of communicating trains.
By integrating the system design as a single entity, not as a collection of individual products, it is possible to more fully coordinate the interaction between functions, taking advantage of all information available to the system to optimize system performance.
The SelTrac integrated design includes: s UTO, DTO and cab-signalling modes s Moving block technology s Automatic performance modification (including speed and station dwell) s Fully redundant train-to-wayside configurations s Data Communication option: s High availability s Automatic route setting s Quick-start reset s Solid-state interlocking and remote point machine control s Automatic coupling/uncoupling (option) Benefits s 4IME PROVEN SOLUTION s OST EFFECTIVE BEST PRICE TO PERFORMANCE RATIO s (IGH PERFORMANCE n NO CONSTRAINTS FROM EXTERNAL INTERLOCKING s -INIMUM TRACKSIDE AND WAYSIDE EQUIPMENT s ,OW LIFECYCLE COST s ULLY PROTECTED BIDIRECTIONAL OPERATION REQUIRING NO ADDITIONAL HARDWARE s (IGH AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY s !UTOMATIC ROUTE SETTING Movement Authority and Interlocking can be integrated within wayside Zone Controllers to reduce equipment and potential interfacing issues, while allowing faster response times and more tightly controlled movements.
However, you might prefer separated interlockings.
Both integrated and overlay architectures can be used together on the same line.
Choice between the two is usually customer/application driven.
The technology must be related to real customer value and needs: performance, adaptation to current/historical signaling operations, safety case acceptance, maintenance practices and operating rules.
Whichever is your preference, Thales meets customer requests for advanced system and independent subsystem technologies that improve operations.
4 5 4(% 02/ 2%33)6% /6%2,!9 3/,54)/.
Existing fixed-block systems can be upgraded to SelTrac cost effectively to provide greater reliability and shortened headways.
Installation is performed as an overlay in parallel with the existing system.
Our cut-over strategy allows operators to phase in the new system with the least amount of disruption.
For those operators specifying an upgradeable solution for new lines, or to overlay on an existing or a new interlocking infrastructure, SelTrac offers progressive levels of automation from Speed and Signal Safeguard (S SS), to continuous ATP, to ATO.
More advanced SelTrac configurations bring additional functionality and features into play, enabling operators to significantly enhance performance and service frequency with shorter headways and automated operation.
These solutions incorporate a moving-block design -the system is not dependent on, or restricted by track circuits.
The operator can safely run two trains closer together to improve throughput (i two trains can occupy the same physical block).
This technology is especially effective in resolving interoperability and mixed-mode requirements faced by some transit operators.
Speed and Signal Safeguard The SelTrac SS S solution vitally supervises speed profiles and signal adherence and provides all the functions of an intermittent ATP.
It provides an entry-level computer based train protection mechanism that enhances operational safety by supervising driver actions.
Monitoring and interfacing with conventional signals, it emergency brakes trains passing red signals and/or operating at speeds higher than mandated by civil speed limits.
Information is regularly transmitted to the train at specific locations.
This basic SelTrac solution is an ideal overlay enhancement for existing conventional signalling systems.
Signal status and permitted speed information is sent through transponder tags to the Vehicle On-Board Controller (VOBC) at key locations along the track.
The advantage of this concept is its simple interfacing technique to the existing interlocking.
It can be installed and brought on-line quickly and easily without complicated tie-ins to the signal circuitry, and operators do not require new skills to use and benefit from the system.
When the VOBC detects an over-speed condition, whether due to signal status or track restrictions, it alerts the driver and monitors the driver s reaction to the alert.
Should the driver fail to respond properly, the VOBC vitally activates the braking system.
Operating data is fed to a high definition Driver Display Unit, allowing the driver to confidently monitor train performance and status.
By providing speed and signal information to the driver in the cab, the system allows minimized headway while ensuring safety.
s Determines permitted and actual train speed s Determines travel direction vs.
expected travel direction s Provides compensation for wheel slip/slide s Provides automatic wheel size calibration to maintain accurate speed and position determination s Allows for travel direction reversal s Provides braking profile supervision and enforcement s Records events in real time s Can display distance traveled and distance to go SelTrac s proven ability to operate safely in mixed mode with unequipped trains makes it ideal for a suburban railway that must share tracks with mainline operators.
Emergency Brake Applied VOBC Cab Display Tag Reader Track Circuit Block SIDTAG Emergency Brake Benefits s 5PGRADEABLE UP TO ANY LEVEL OF AUTOMATIC OPERATION INCLUDING DRIVERLESS s 5PGRADE WITH NO DISRUPTION TO REVENUE SERVICE s !LLOWS PHASED OPERATION AND MINIMUM TIME TO SERVICE s !LLOWS PHASED INVESTMENT TOWARDS IMPROVED SAFETY AUTOMATION AND OPERATION EFlCIENCIES s -AINTAINS TRADITIONAL SIGNALING PRINCIPLES 6 7 Automatic Train Protection Enhancing SelTrac SS S capability with continuous ATP functionality provides the added value of improved headway while maintaining safe train separation, without depending on axle counters or track circuits.
The system will automatically generate movement authorities based on the actual locations of moving obstacles (i trains) and fixed obstacles such as switch protection signals.
It is used in conjunction with existing interlockings and provides a replacement for automatic separation signals between the interlockings.
It can operate seamlessly with existing track circuits which provide an inherent mechanism to operate mixed-mode traffic (communicating and non-communicating trains).
A display in the cab shows information about the operating conditions ahead of the train.
Information is continuously transmitted to the train by means of a radio-based Data Communications System (DCS).
Progressive functionality: s Improves headway with moving-block technology s Provides continuous ATP and cab-signal s Provides high availability s Allows multiple trains per physical track circuit s Allows fully protected bi-directional operation (requiring no additional hardware) s Reduces track-side equipment s Provides integrated, redundant communication capability between wayside and train In this solution, the wayside Zone Controller (ZC) generates override commands to external interlockings.
This includes signal and route-release overrides.
These commands are based on CBTC train position reports.
Thales is offering external independent electronic interlocking designed to work efficiently with the SelTrac CBTC using standard IP interface.
Automatic Train Operation The SelTrac solution can include automatic train movement control offering the driver the opportunity to operate hands off and thereby improve running performance.
From one station (or predetermined operational stopping point) to the next, the train will follow the required speeds of the track and the operating conditions ensuring safe operation.
The additional functionality is considered non-vital, with the continuous ATP features providing the safety net.
ATO functionality plus s Provides automatic train movement control functionality s Governs automatic speed control to traffic and track conditions s Can provide additional functions such as coordinated train and platform door control s Driverless or unattended operation (optional) Overlay designs facilitate cost-effective system cut-over and deployment, allow mixed-mode operation, and provide an easy evolutionary path to higher level functionality.
Fully Automated Operation and -ANAGEMENT 54/ 4/ Moving to Fully Automated Operation (FAO) provides an excellent means to match train supply to passenger demand both economically and commercially.
It enables operators to improve the quality of service, reliability and availability of trains while breaking the constraining link between service offered and personal management requirements.
For light or heavy rail applying unattended (UTO) or driverless (DTO) operation for optimal headway, along with a high degree of safety, SelTrac CBTC is offered with a high level of automation and functionality all at once, or in progressive, scalable designs.
SelTrac s unique capacity for remote health-status monitoring and for control of all vehicle systems - including doors (both train and platform), couplers and auxiliaries also makes it an attractive choice.
All train control operations are self-supervising.
STO: Semi-automated operation -Driver initiates departure from station NetTrac MT Central Control Through our advanced NetTrac MT platform, based on commercial off-the-shelf PC and LAN technology, the System Management Center supervises the automatic, cab-signaling or manual operation of the entire rail fleet.
NetTrac MT is designed to provide automatic control of all train operations under normal conditions without operator intervention.
It is easy to use and enables operators to handle system disruptions quickly.
Standard features include sophisticated failure management capabilities, high system availability, redundancy, complex alarm handling, and data logging.
Workstations display the track layout together with icons individually identifying all elements under SelTrac control.
At a glance, central controllers monitor the location and schedule adherence of each train within the system.
Icon color changes alert dispatchers to changes in the status of trains, platforms, track switches and tracks.
Situations requiring urgent attention trip visual and audible alarm messages.
Dispatchers use pull-down command menus, drag-and-drop, and point-and-click options to perform numerous functions, including: s Assigning and launching a schedule s Monitoring status s Routing trains to a specific track location or station s Assigning trains to a line or run or to shuttle service s Holding trains at specific locations or by-passing platforms s Diverting trains around an impassable area s Changing train velocity s Triggering automatic announcements in stations and on trains s Interfacing with third-party subsystems Availability Driver Door Control Guideway Intrusion Detection Higher Lower Lower Higher FAO STO Not Required Required Included Not Included Included Not Included Operating Cost 8 9 OM4RAC 3 /PEN3TANDARDS Radio Communications Technology: SelTrac CBTC solutions incorporate high bandwidth, secure and protected radio communication technology to deliver the most advanced, most efficient Automatic Train Control solution available today.
Advanced signaling technology reached a new milestone in 2004 with the inauguration of the Las Vegas Monorail, the USA s first fully automated, wireless rapid transit system, and the first of many SelTrac projects worldwide to apply reliable and secure open-standards radio CBTC with its automatic train control solutions.
The driving force behind the advancement in applying broad-band radio technology to rail transit has been the need to move train control to a more sophisticated infrastructure while maintaining constant communication as trains move along the track.
The communication technology follows an open-system philosophy that complies with well-recognized industry standards and protocols, which provide a stable future migration path.
Thales advocates the use of open-standard data communication technology, believing that rail transit operators should have the flexibility to buy future components from any supplier that supports IEEE standards (802.3 Ethernet, 802.11, etc.), and software for future purposes.
Meeting this demand allows the customer more supplier options primarily at less cost than that of proprietary systems.
The implementation of free space wireless communication incorporates full redundancy through the use of overlapping radio coverage.
Benefits s !LLOWS ANY SUBSYSTEM TO COMMUNICATE WITH ANY OTHER SUBSYSTEM s !LLOWS FOR CLEAR DIVISION OF !40 AND !4/ FUNCTIONS s %ASE OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE s ASTER RECOVERY TIMES DUE TO SINGLE COMPONENT FAILURE DETECTION AND REPLACEMENT s ,OW SUSCEPTIBILITY TO VANDALISM ,ESS TRACKSIDE EQUIPMENT s ACILITATE CUTOVER ON RESIGNALLING PROJECTS s 2EDUCE , SelTrac technology incorporates open architecture, system modularity, standard interfaces and commercial off-the-shelf data communication components based on Open System network solutions that facilitate subsystem interchangeability strategies.
Safe train control functionality is specifically designed to be independent of the communication subsystem.
Thales, enviable track record Thales is the leading global supplier in the design, manufacture and implementation of advanced technology systems for urban rail mass transit .Continually evolving to meet the changing needs of operators around the world, SelTrac technology has provided safe, reliable, revenue-efficient operation over two decades.
SelTrac sets the quality and performance standards that all others strive to reach.
s SelTrac -the world s most widely adopted CBTC system Proven with over 10 million train operating hours of revenue service More revenue CBTC km than any other supplier (over 1000km) Selected by 27 metro, light rapid transit and automated people mover operators around the world The latest technology underpinned by core systems and adapted to meet customer specific operations s Re-signalling experience Thales has experience on more than 215 km of urban rail track s Market Firsts Fully automated CBTC in revenue service Vancouver SkyTrain (1986) 1st revenue service of free space radio CBTC for fully automated operation Las Vegas Monorail and Hong Kong DRL CBTC UTO of the longest metros in the world Vancouver SkyTrain and Dubai Red and Green lines 3 lines at once into revenue service Shanghai lines 6, 8 and 9 1st re-signalling to CBTC Docklands Light Rail (1995) Most challenging re-signalling project San Francisco MUNI World s largest re-signalling project London s Jubilee, Northern and Piccadilly lines Automated depot including driverless coupling/uncoupling Vancouver SkyTrain 3/,54)/.
%8 %,,%.
% 2/- 4(% 4 30% )!,)343 Real mass transit solutions begin with people.
We assemble the right teams with the right skills to address the unique challenges and complexities of your project.
Our people listen and respond, tailoring our proven technology to your special needs and helping you make the right decisions now and for the future.
With more experience in advanced communications-based train control technology than anyone anywhere, your Project team offers exceptional expertise and integrated solutions for maximizing capacity, minimizing cost and enhancing safety in partnership with your engineering, operations, and maintenance departments.
Our support is wide-ranging; our commitment is long-term.
10 11 Thales Security Solutions Services Rail Signalling Solutions 1235 Ormont Drive Toronto, Ontario, Canada M9L 2W6 tel: 1.416.742.3900 fax: 1.416.742.1136 info.3s thalesgroup.com 12 2A -07 20 09 C P ho tos : T ha les 