


MASS TRANSIT OPERATORS strive for higher levels of performance and lower life cycle costs, whilst maintaining passenger safety, comfort and security. 
Urban population increase and expansion demands both passenger and environment friendly public transport. A state of the art communication based train control solution is essential to the 21st century mass transit blue print. 
The Alstom developed URBALIS Mass Transit Control System is the worldís most complete and flexible system to integrate a networked Communication Based Train Control system (CBTC). Users benefit from a wide range of high performing functions needed to operate subways and suburban commuter trains profitably. URBALIS provides higher passenger throughput, better journey times, accurate station stopping and can deliver multimedia content (such as advertising) onboard. 
Such service enhancements are already available. Signalling Solutions can configure the URBALIS Control System for different operating environments, integrating proven, modular, robust and reliable components that bring you the best of CBTC technology. 
Signalling Solutions utilises worldwide expertise for transit authorities seeking a superior mass transit solution, one that enhances the travel experience of daily commuters, urban populations and visitors. We deliver on-time, taking into account operational constraints without sacrificing system testing, integration, and validation. Furthermore, we can offer alternative contract options, such as a first-class turnkey operation. 
The upgrade of an urban transit network may take the form of: 
 
Addition of a new line 

 
Extension of an existing line 

 
Renovation of an existing line 

 
Interconnecting lines 


Whatever the requirements, URBALIS CBTC technology can help run transit business in the most cost effective ways. 


URBALIS: The Networked CBTC 

CBTC frees data communication between trains and trackside safety computers from the limitations characteristic of traditional equipment such as track circuits or inductive cables. Alstom Transport designed and put into service the worldís first radio-based CBTC system on Singaporeís North East Line subway. Alstom are taking URBALIS a step further by implementing ìnetworked CBTCî urban transit system projects in Beijing, Milan, Malaga, and Istanbul. The URBALIS ìnetworked CBTCî advantage is one that simplifies and speeds up installation and enhances flexibility, to overcome constraints from existing equipment, infrastructure, or particular operating needs. 
Three Integrated Networks 
URBALIS ìnetworked CBTCî consists of three integrated networks: 
 
Backbone Network (SDH Multi-Service Network) 

 
Radio Network (IEEE 802.11 g/a with OFDM carrier at 

2.4 GHz or 5.8 GHz) 

 
Train Network (ETHERNET) 


These standards allow integration of proven components to achieve a very high level of system availability and each of the three networks is fully redundant. 
URBALIS delivers improved commercial speeds. As a result, journey times and the number of trains needed are reduced. Moreover, significant energy savings come from a system that optimises train running and station stops. 


Outstanding Performance 

URBALIS Moving Block is a superior solution offering optimum performance. In a safe and proven way, the shortest possible headway between trains is permitted, resulting in maximised line capacity. 
ENHANCED FUNCTIONALITY: Driverless operation provides cost saving and allows transit authorities to realise significant gains in operational flexibility. URBALIS driverless function can also be a straightforward upgrade. 
ADDED VALUE SERVICES: The high data capacity of URBALIS networks translates into add-on real-time multimedia capabilities and CCTV1 for passenger security. 
SMOOTHER MIGRATION: URBALIS networked CBTC can be installed within an existing transit infrastructure, and in readily available trains, without problem. This greatly facilitates migration and minimises service disruption. 

LINKING LINES AND SHARING TRACKS: With URBALIS in the urban transit market and with ATLAS in the ERTMS/ETCS2 mainline applications, Signalling Solutions can provide an integrated CBTC/ETCS operation when a suburban commuter line is interconnected to an urban transit line. This is the essence of the Marmaray Rail Link project awarded to an Alstom Transport-led consortium in Istanbul, Turkey. 
MEETING IMMEDIATE NEEDS: Without change to the infrastructure, and based on their regulations, the customer can benefit from a lower cost, higher performance CBTC solution. Open systems architecture allows centralised or distributed network solutions for different environments and makes provision for future obsolescence management. A simple solution can be installed today with an easy upgrade to full driverless operation. 
1. 
CCTV = Closed Circuit Television 

2. 
ERTMS/ETCS = European Rail Traffic Management System/ European Train Control System 




URBALIS Global Success 

The Alstom Transport URBALIS technology has been delivered worldwide, providing measurable cost-effective performance. 
SINGAPORE 
The city operates the worldís first high capacity driverless subway 
In operation since 2003, Singaporeís North East Line is the first in the world to be installed with a fully automatic Radio CBTC solution. URBALIS was chosen for the cityís driverless subway, boasting a 90 seconds headway on a 20km tunnel route. The line comprises 25 six-car subway trains serving 16 stations. A proprietary radio solution and a wave-guide propagation medium were installed. This allows Singaporeís Land Transport Authority to install other radios and WiFi devices without any risk of interference with the train control system. The Land Transport Authority awarded Alstom Transport a further turnkey contract for a new ìCircle Lineî subway system. 
CHINA 
Beijing Line 2 Subway CBTC Renovation 
Beijing, Chinaís capital, needed to boost passenger capacity on their 23 km circular Line 2 subway in time for the 2008 Olympic games. They chose URBALIS technology, to ensure a smooth and swift migration to a Networked CBTC system. This installation is being carried out in 4-hour night shifts. The innovative migration strategy consists of a 2-step switched-and≠reversible approach for the change to the new train control operations. 
Alstom Transport carried out this project in parallel with the installation of an URBALIS Networked CBTC System on a new driverless express rail link to Beijingís airport. 







SPAIN 
Madrid and Malaga light rail lines 
Madrid chose Alstom-built CITADIS vehicles for its T-1 light rail line. To enhance performance, this line required a fixed block ATO (Automatic Train Operation) for a significant central section in a tunnel. Beyond the tunnel section, the vehicles run at street level in a mixed traffic environment; the drivers then operate ìon-sightî. The URBALIS fixed block system was able to address this dual operating mode. 
More recently, the Spanish city of Malaga chose URBALIS because their needs were very similar. However, they opted for a Networked CBTC version of URBALIS to reduce trackside equipment and to enhance the capacity for added-value services on the network. 
SWITZERLAND 
Lausanne M2 
To serve the northern suburbs, Lausanne decided to build a modern metro line from the lakeside up through the city centre and beyond. The solution, involving a number of sections with very steep gradients, one of which is 12%, had to be carefully planned. The Lausanne Transport Authority needed an advanced train control solution to operate their driverless system in a safe and reliable way. They chose URBALIS for its proven train control functions. The full metro system was put into revenue service in 2008. 
Madrid Light Rail 
Lausanne Metro 



URBALIS Modular Subsystems and Products 

The seamless communications system comprising three networks (backbone, radio, and train) acts as an integrating framework for the following URBALIS modules and subsystems. 
URBALIS Automatic Train Control (ATC) 
Optimum train operating performance is determined by URBALIS ATC intelligence, the most advanced and proven technology available today. Designed for manned or fully automatic operation, it is composed of two main entities: 
A ZONE CONTROLLER: monitors train positions and controls a line section up to 20 km long based on a Moving Block principle. Several modes of Line Operation using secondary train detection and protection support mixed traffic with equipped and non-equipped trains. 
AN ONBOARD CONTROLLER: implements vital functions and automatic operation. It uses train location information read from the standard EUROBALISE beacons on tracks. Controlling the speed and position of trains is assured, within an envelop, by an Emergency Brake Control. Furthermore, URBALIS provides driver machine interfaces, logging, and maintenance monitoring functions. 
SMARTLOCK Interlocking 
With SMARTLOCK control technology, infrastructure operators can manage their track equipment in a coherent and sustainable manner. SMARTLOCK is compatible with centralised or distributed architectures. It delivers ergonomic and high-performance interlocking functions that decrease downtime and maintenance operations. 



ICONIS Network Control 

ICONIS is an integrated control and information system based on a common and highly configurable core technology. It supervises all aspects of a network. It monitors entire urban arrangements, thereby giving operators the most reliable way to anticipate situations and enhance efficiency. 
ICONIS delivers: 

 
Automatic Train Supervision (ATS) 

 
Centralised Traffic Control (CTC) 


 
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA 

 
Passenger Information System (PIS) 

 
Supervision and Control of Telecommunications 



Passenger Information and Security 
Behind the move to customer-oriented transportation services is the need to assure the positive experience of city dwellers, commuters and tourists. 
Transit authorities know that passengers want timely information: in the ticket purchase area, on the platform and subway. When there is a delay or a prolonged stop, they want to know when the train will start rolling again. They also want reliable information about journey times and train connections. 
By using new multimedia software and hardware that plug into smart Input/output devices, Signalling Solutions offers a range of system solutions that provide passenger information in real time. The media content can include weather forecasts, sports results, and stock market information. 
For example, the transit authority in Montreal, Canada has fitted their subways with rich content that includes delivery services via its metro traffic control systems. This not only enhances the ride but also generates revenue from advertisements. 
Today, transit authorities on every continent seek effective solutions for passenger security. They want equipment that provides the best security functions that can be integrated, to operate in the train-borne and station environments. 
Signalling Solutions security solutions permit transit security teams to intervene rapidly. We supply CCTV equipment that transmits raw data analysed by smart software that can signal potential incidents on trains or in stations on a ìmanagement-by-exceptionî basis. 






Signalling Solutions offers Alstom URBALIS Technology, the most reliable transit control system with a wide range of state of the art transit system configurations already delivered. 
These solutions integrate validated technology, provide lower maintenance requirements and are backed up by continuous customer support. 




Signalling Solutions Limited Borehamwood Industrial Park Rowley Lane Borehamwood Hertfordshire WD6 5PZ 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8953 9922 Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 8207 5905 
www.signallingsolutions.com For product information: www.signallingsolutions.info 
Prices are correct at the time of publication. Signalling Solutions Limited reserve the right to change specifications and prices. 
March 2009 
Designed & produced by Anderson Lambert +44 (0) 1582 754000 www.andersonlambert.com 






RISK IDENTIFICATION AND PREVENTION, THE KEY TO ENHANCED SECURITY 
PROTECTING YOUR CUSTOMERS, STAFF AND ASSETS 
Whether transporting people or goods, you want to be sure you are protecting them to the best of your ability. As managers of urban transit, main-line passenger and freight networks, you also want to assure the security of your valuable rail assets. In the face of todayís increased security concerns, preparedness is the answer. Experts can assess the risks of crime, fraud, assault and terrorism in your speci.c context and devise the best measures against them, using the most advanced proven technology. Well chosen, high performing IT equipment can play a crucial role in your transport securityóin arming you with the real-time information, warnings and pre-con.gured instructions you need to act fast and effectively. 
Integrated control and security center of the Lausanne metro 


A FOCUSED RESPONSE 
As manufacturers of rolling stock, signalling systems and rail infrastructure, as well as systems integrators, we truly get the big picture. Alstom experts draw from years of experience across the board and around the world to develop the technology required in real-life situations. We have the technology and expertise to capture risk-related data in all rail contexts (trains, stations, track and tunnels, depots and control centers) and transform it into useful information for security management and operations without affecting the .ow of passengers. Our extensive engineering and security consulting services with local≠content suppliers can assist in your security project. 

2 | Alstom Transport 
Alstom Transport | 3 



A COMPLETE SECURITY SOLUTION IN AN INTERMODAL STATION 

Six reasons to always consult  Alstom for Security solutions 
1.  Experience and expertise: our core activities cover every rail environment: trains, stations,  track & tunnels, control centers  

	


	

	 
	
 
and depots. 
2.  A single shared architecture and IT platform to integrate 4 functional sub-systems: 
 
-
 Control & Monitoring 

-
 Passenger Information 

-
 Security 

-
 Networks & Telecoms 


3.  Full modularity: our IT systems are designed for easy integration and 
 
upgrading. 
4.
 Solution-oriented: by only manufacturing key IT equipment  we optimize performance & cost. 

5.  
Security focus: 100% rail ó our sole interest is public transport applications. 

6.  
Advanced technology for all needs: our security solutions can be tailored to any make of train  or OEM equipment in stations, control centers or depots. 



4| Alstom Transport Alstom Transport | 5 


SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 
SECURITY ENHANCEMENT SOLUTIONS 

Real-time crowd surveillance of the Lausanne metro 

DETER, DETECT, RECORD 


Alstom offers operators of urban transit, mainline passenger and freight security equipment and train-ground communications with the systems 



 
 
networks solutions to enhance the security of their passengers, staff of rolling stock made by other companies. Our train-borne security system 
  
(hardware, software and network) for new-build or retro.t projects, intercom, real-time video and audio recorder. It is fully interoperable with our products are designed for use in trains, stations, tunnels, track, Public Address and Passenger Information equipment for emergency depots and control centers. They monitor and capture events at each event noti.cation. site and relay risk management information to the appropriate staff (mobile agents), offering complete visibility throughout the transport network. Equipment can be integrated ñ initially or later ñ into a full TRACKS AND TUNNELS system covering all rail sites with functions beyond Security. 
Our intrusion control software can be con.gured to detect foreign objects on tracks and alert staff. Tunnel cameras and sensors are also available TRAINS to react rapidly to unexpected events including unauthorized persons on 
tracks. We are also developing a gantry to inspect an entire train prior All of our rolling stock is designed with a standard-based, train-to tunnel entry. borne Ethernet network, which provides a single, uni.ed and secure broadband communication network for security and other subsystems. For existing .eets, our experts can interface onboard 
  
Our Security Systemís architecture covers three distinct environments:  The system is modular and upgradeable, offering customers multiple  
trains, .xed installations (stations, depots, track & tunnels) and the  options: an operator may choose to equip a single environment and  
control center.  later equip others, or deploy one of the four functions and interface it  
with other functional areas already at work, knowing that a migration  
This system architecture is shared and integrated with three other  path exists for a later, fully integrated system solution.  
functions for control and operations:  The system is scalable and con.gurable to an expanding rail network.  
  The equipment in  an  Alstom Security system is either designed  
 and manufactured in-house or sourced from reliable suppliers. All   
  equipment conforms fully to rail transport environment standards.  

and assets. Available as modules or individual equipment and system includes interior and exterior CCTVs with in-cab viewing, emergency 
 	    
  

		  
  
   
Security agent at work for Caltrain, California, USA 
6| Alstom Transport 6A| Alstom Transport Alstom Transport | 6B 




SECURITY WITHIN THE FULL  ALSTOM OFFER 
A COMMON NETWORK & STANDARD INTERFACES 
Our Security solutions use the same network and data transmission platforms as our Passenger Information & Entertainment range, facilitating immediate integration or later upgrades. All can be easily integrated into one of our complete rail control systems or one supplied by a third party.  

ADVANCED TRAIN CONTROL & AMENITIES 
Our trains are built with the electronic infrastructure required by advanced systems for operational control and passenger amenities. We carry out homologation of all types of train technology and equipment. Your security solutions are implemented ef.ciently and effectively, because we are experts in rail transport. 
Station equipment. Our staff has years of experience in integrating and optimizing station equipment, a broad range of utilities that includes platform screen doors, elevators/escalators, ventilation and ticketing systems. 
Track laying and signalling. Alstom has key references worldwide in track laying and signalling. We also install catenary and power substations for open rail lines and in tunnels. 
10 | Alstom Transport 
Fleet and infrastructure maintenance. We know depots because we design, build and manage them as part of our comprehensive lifecycle maintenance service offer, which equally covers .eet maintenance of 

Control centers. Along with Security & Passenger Information systems, we also link train-control and remote-maintenance systems to control centers via networks and telecoms. 
Software and hardware. For train traf.c control and network safety, 

modular software and standard hardware for rail control centers. 

LIFETIME SUPPORT 
We offer our customers maintenance services for all the systems and equipment we supply in trains, stations and control centers. 
Through its know-how and the excellence of its products, Alstom is shaping the future of energy and transport infrastructure and contributing to improving the living and working conditions of people throughout the world. Today, more than 65,000 people in 70 countries are making an active contribution to the growth and development of its business. 
TRANS/BGENE/SECURAILTRANS/eng/Transv/10.08/FR/6636 © - ALSTOM 2008. ALSTOM, the ALSTOM logo, Urbalis, Iconis and any alternative version thereof are trademarks and service marks of ALSTOM. The other names mentioned, registered or not, are the property of their respective companies.  
The technical and other data contained in this document is provided for information only. ALSTOM reserves the right to revise or change this data at any time without further notice. 
Graphic Design 4EENK. Photo Credits: (c)ALSTOM Transport / P. de Salabert / N. PÈrez / TOMA-C. Sasso / K. Tastets / R. Vilalta. Printed on PEFC (Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certi.cation) certi.ed paper.

Europe, Middle East and Africa Alstom Transport 48, rue Albert Dhalenne 93482 Saint-Ouen Cedex France Phone: +33 1 41 66 90 00 
Latin America, Spain & Portugal Alstom Transport Paseo de la Castellana 257 -6∞ Madrid 28046 Spain Phone: +34 9 1334 5800 
Asia-Paci.c Alstom Transport 24 Raf.es Place #27-01 Clifford Centre Singapore 048621 Singapore Phone: +65 6220 1138 
North America Alstom Transportation 353 Lexington Ave. Suite 1100 New York NY 10016 USA Phone: +1 607 281 2481 
www.transport.alstom.com 



AN ADVANCE COMMUNICATION BASED 
TRAIN CONTROL SYSTEM FOR TORONTO 


The Yonge-University-Spadina Line (YUS) in Toronto had been constantly experiencing heavy traffic, and the Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) was seeking a higher level of operation performance to absorb the ridership increase. 
TTC chose Alstomís Communication Based Train Control System (CBTC), awarding the company a contract to resignal the line instead of building an entire new system, adding another 15-20 years of life. 
CBTC is the current generation of advanced train control technology using radio and modern network technology. Alstomís solution allows for more efficient operation and makes it possible to increase train frequency and transport capacity. The system is capable of providing headway of 90 seconds or better under normal operating conditions, allowing the TTC to run more trains, and therefore carry more passengers in less time. 


Note: The system will be put into service starting in 2012. 


The building block approach and the distributed design also allow for easy system growth and functional expansion, as well as integration of MIS, AVI, and future communication based signaling information. 
Alstom Systems provide advanced supervisory solutions for train control requirements, including specialized modules for advanced scheduling functions, dark territory control, conflict detection/resolution, Time-Distance Graph, simulation, playback, and asset planning. 
The modularity of the system promotes distributed hardware control where any workstation may be used for supervisory control functions at any time. Operating over wide and local-area networks, customers can distribute control functionality to improve resource utilization. 
Ease of use and maintanability tools allow users to efficiently operate and maintain their system. This includes the ability to add, remove or modify territory on their own, using a suite of user-friendly software tools. 
Control application software design concepts that have been proven for over 40 years and feature Redundancy, Automatic Failover and High System Availability. 
These systems evolved from Supervisory Control Systems beginning with single CPU minicomputers in the 1960ís. They address the needs of both transit and mainline rail systems, with specialized modules for advance scheduling functions in transit and dark territory control in railroads. 
Through the use of flexible building block approaches and open sys≠tems software and hardware technology, they cover a broad range of both system size and capabilities. 







TDG is easy to use and highly configurable.  It allows the operator to see in advance traffic problems in a clear and intuitive way and then to act quickly and to efficiently resolve the problem. 

Offline Graphical Timetable Generator 
Offline Graphical Timetable Generator (OGT) helps users plan train traffic. OGT gives a clear graphical view of the train circu≠lation, infrastructure state, abnormalities and detected conflicts. 
OGT is used in a standalone offline mode to plan in advance train traffic taking into account infrastructure. 
OGT is easy to use and highly configurable. It allows the operator to see in advance traffic problems in a clear and intuitive way and to efficiently resolve the problem. 




The Simulator is ideal for operator training and also supports testing of schedules before they are used in service. 
Simulator 
Alstomís Simulator is a complete simulation system devoted to Mass Transit, Suburban Railways and Railroad applications. It is able to simulate the whole set of Signaling System Devices and the Train Control System (ATC). 
The Simulator performs three distinct functions: 
 	Simulates the operation of field devices in response to control requests 
 	Simulated trains accelerate, decelerate and stop just like real trains 
 	Manual point-to-point test of field indications and controls 

©2011 Alstom Signaling Inc. www.alstomsignalingsolutions.com 


Transit Summary 



Playback allows users to review operational situations to determine what happened in past incidents. Much more than a simple video playback, the user can examine any location on the system under full playback control, allowing an easy yet comprehensive analysis of the sequence of events. 

©2011 Alstom Signaling Inc. www.alstomsignalingsolutions.com 




STATE-OF-THE-ARTTECHNOLOGY 

URBALIS DELIVEREDPERFORMANCEON:  SINGAPORE NORTH EAST & CIRCLE LINES, THE WORLDíSLARGEST DRIVERLESSNETWORK  BEIJING LINE 2, RENOVATED IN 2 YEARS WITHNO DISRUPTION TOCOMMERCIALSERVICE 
URBALISRADIO CBTC 

ATS 
ATC 
HIGH-PERFORMANCE CBTC TECHNOLOGY: 
Easy expansion for line extensions by adding communication and interface modules. 
Easy integration of additional functions and connectivity to external systems,thanks to network-based architecture using standard interfaces. 
Best immunity against interference ensured by our robust radio technology with coding option from the IEEE802,11b/g standards in the 2.4 or 5.8GHzband. 
Obsolescence-proof through the use of Alstom score signaling products and subsystems (Alstom safety computers, SMARTLOCK interlocking, ICONIS control center,Ö). 

DESIGNED TO OPTIMIZE METROOPERATIONS: 
Top performance: the system works with the moving block principle to ensure train operating headways as short as 85seconds,resultingin thehighestpossiblelinecapacity. 
Flexible operations fromthecontrolcenter:trainsareruntoatimetable or with a constant time interval between them, with automatic readjustmentincaseofperturbations.Trainscanbeeasilyinsertedor withdrawnandarecontrolledtoarriveatstationswithaprecisionof1 second. 
Driverless (or upgradeability to driverless) system:thesystem integrates all the features and interfaces for driverless operation. 
Smartlock Interlocking 
MSS 
Safe,designed to international standards(CENELEC*) and developed with formal software specification and proof processes. 
Minimum trackside equipmentforsecondarydetectiontoensure 
Energy saving: themostenergy-saving speed profile is calculated according to the train speed chosen.If regenerative brakingis not available,for example due to long train intervals, the system will make maximum use of train coastingtosaveenergy. 
PIS Equipment room operation in degraded mode. High availability:a combination of full redundancy of architecture,high 
PSD RADIO 
component reliability,and immediate detection of component failure ensures optimum availability.
ICONIS control center 
*CENELEC : European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization
I/O 
Easy maintenance: The system provides rapid diagnostics with 
RADIO 
centralizedMaintenance Support System (MSS). 
SMARTWAY conventional products 
ATC RADIO RADIO 
SMARTLOCK interlocking 
Our proven interlocking relies on a redundant and fault-tolerant platform and requires only minimum line possession during commissioning. 

ICONIS control center 
Our control system guarantees train adherence to schedules, automatic route setting, conflict-free use of resources. ICONIS can be scaled to 
ABBREVIATIONS 
I/O INPUT/OUTPUT 
ATC AUTOMATIC TRAINCONTROL ATC ATS AUTOMATIC TRAINSUPERVISION 
PSD the networkís size and complexity and can integrate Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA), on-board and in-station passenger
PSD PLATFORMSCREEN DOORS 
information system, security system and maintenance supervision system.
PIS PASSENGER INFORMATIONSYSTEM 
I/O

MSS MAINTENANCE SUPPORT SYSTEM 
SMARTWAY conventional products 
Alstom offersone of the largest portfoliosof conventional trackside signaling products to address specific needs. It includes point machines,

URBALIS is built on 3 networks compliant with international standards (IEEE*) and integrated into a 
NETWORK KEY train detection and signals.
Data Communication System (DCS) to provide continuous, seamless communication. The network can be implemented to provide non-vital signaling solutions such as Passenger Information and Security systems. TRACKSIDE NETWORK The trainborne ATC computer continuously updates the trackside safety computer on the position of the Maintenance Support System (MSS) train, and receives a detailed description of the line and movement authorities. Our approach allows the system to gather all maintenance information on all equipment integrated into an URBALIS solution through the
RADIO NETWORK 
network.
*IEEE: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
TRAIN NETWORK
4| Alstom Transport Alstom Transport | 5 



TRANS/URBALISV2- ALSTOM 2010. ALSTOM, the ALSTOM logo, URBALIS, ATLAS, SMARTLOCK, SMARTWAY, ICONIS and any alternative version thereof are trademarks and service marks of ALSTOM. The other names mentioned, registered or not, are the property of their respective 
companies. The technical and other data contained in this document is provided for information only. ALSTOM reserves the right to revise or change this data at any time without further notice. 
Graphic Design: SeenkÆ. Author: Ruth Pavans. Photo credits: © ALSTOM, ALSTOM Transport / P. Guignard / P. de Salabert / TOMA- C. Sasso, GettyImages /Michael Wheatley. Printed on PEFC (Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certi.cation) certi.ed paper.

Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Alstom Transport 48, rue Albert Dhalenne 93482 Saint-Ouen Cedex France Phone: +33 1 57 06 90 00 
Russia Commonwealth of Independent States 
Alstom Transport 18, Schipok, building 2 Moscow 115093 Russia Phone: +7 495 231 29 49 
Asia Pacific 
Alstom Transport 5/F, Entrance C, Qiankun Plaza, 6, West Street 6 Sanlitun Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, P.R. China Phone: +86 10 84 60 90 00 
USA and Canada 
Alstom Transportation 1025 John Street West Henrietta, NY 14586 USA Phone: +1 585 783 2000 
Latin America 
Alstom Transporte Av. Embaixador Macedo Soares, 10001 S„o Paulo (SP) 05095-035 Brazil Phone: +55 11 36 12 70 00 
www.alstom.com/transport 





